# Chapter 2-1: The csproj Project File

Every C# project contains a *\*.csproj* Project file.  This file defines the project level configurations for the application, including the target framework version of .NET and external references to third party libraries used by the project. 

The project file generated by a typical MonoGame template looks similar to the following:

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
	<PropertyGroup>
		<OutputType>WinExe</OutputType>
		<TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
		<RollForward>Major</RollForward>
		<PublishReadyToRun>false</PublishReadyToRun>
		<TieredCompilation>false</TieredCompilation>
	</PropertyGroup>
	<PropertyGroup>
		<ApplicationManifest>app.manifest</ApplicationManifest>
		<ApplicationIcon>Icon.ico</ApplicationIcon>
	</PropertyGroup>
	<ItemGroup>
		<None Remove="Icon.ico" />
		<None Remove="Icon.bmp" />
	</ItemGroup>
	<ItemGroup>
		<EmbeddedResource Include="Icon.ico" />
		<EmbeddedResource Include="Icon.bmp" />
	</ItemGroup>
	<ItemGroup>
		<PackageReference Include="MonoGame.Framework.DesktopGL" Version="3.8.2.1105" />
		<PackageReference Include="MonoGame.Content.Builder.Task" Version="3.8.2.1105" />
	</ItemGroup>
	<Target Name="RestoreDotnetTools" BeforeTargets="Restore">
		<Message Text="Restoring dotnet tools" Importance="High" />
		<Exec Command="dotnet tool restore" />
	</Target>
</Project>
```

> [!NOTE]
> The above project file is the one created when we [created a new project](../chapter-01-getting-started/01-03-hello-world.md#creating-a-new-monogame-project) in Chapter 1, which was done using the **MonoGame Cross-Platform Desktop Application** project template.  Depending on which MonoGame project template you choose to create a project with, there may be slight differences.  For instance, the the `<TargetFramework>` for mobile projects may be `net8.0-android` or `net8.0-ios`.  The `<PackageReference>` can also vary depending on the project template chosen.  For instance, in MonoGame projects that target OpenGl this will be **MonoGame.Framework.DesktopGL** and in projects that target DirectX this will be **MonoGame.Framework.WindowsDX**.

- The first and second `<PropertyGroup>` sections contain the standard information you would find in any C# project file, such as the `<TargetFrameWork>`, `<ApplicationManifest>` and `<ApplicationIcon>`.  

- In the first `<ItemGroup>` section there are two `<None>` tags with a `Remove` attribute to remove the icon *.ico* and *.bmp* files.  This removes them as files that are part of the project, so they will not show up in the *Solution Explorer* only.  It does not remove the files themselves such as deleting them.

- The second `<ItemGroup>` section specifies two `<EmbeddedResource>` tags with the `Include` attribute to include the icon *.ico* and *.bmp* files as embedded resources in the game application.  This means when the game project is built, those two icon files will be embedded into the assembly. Internally, the MonoGame framework will look for these within the assembly and use them as the icon files for the window title bar and the taskbar.  

- The third `<ItemGroup>` section specifies two `<PackageReferences>` tags, one to include the **MonoGame.Framework.DesktopGL\*** package and another to include **MonoGame.Content.Builder.Task** package.  This section is adding these two NuGet packages as references to the project, which is how the MonoGame framework is distributed.  The **MonoGame.Framework.DesktopGL** package contains the actual framework code specific for the platform you are targeting.  The **MonoGame.Content.Builder.Task** package contains tasks that will execute when you perform a build of your game that are responsible for automatically building the assets added to your content project and copying the compiled assets to the project build directory.

- Finally, the `<Target>` tag defines a target named **RestoreDotnetTool** that executes before the **Restore** target.  This is here to ensure that the dotnet tools defined in the *dotnet-tools.json* manifest file are downloaded and ready to use when you do a project restore.


## See Also
- [What are solutions and projects in Visual Studio?](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/solutions-and-projects-in-visual-studio?view=vs-2022#solutions)
- [MSBuild \<Target\> element](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/target-element-msbuild?view=vs-2022)

## Next
- [Chapter 2-2: The Content File](./02-02-the-content-file.md)
